The Joe Rogan experience.
You know, think about this. Imagine this scenario, imagine that the,
that the lethality rate on this virus was like 10%. Right? Right.
W like,
what do you have to do to convince those grocery store workers to come to work
at that point? No, one's coming to work. No, one's driving the trucks. No,
one's going to deliver anything.
And then what preppers would say is we're 72 hours to anarchy or 72 hours to
animal, right. It's like, once you shut down those kinds of supply lines, right.
Our entire mentality starts to shift into a different mode and it doesn't take
long before you think I'm going to,
I'm going to take something from my neighbor at this point. I'm hungry.
My family's hungry.
Sure. Yeah. I mean, it's, it gets real scary or cooperate with your neighbor,
hopefully. Yeah. You know? Um, I, uh, I hunt, so I have a lot of meat.
And so, um, one of the things that happened during the pandemic, when it hit, I,
I had a lot of people come over and I gave the meat. Cause I have, uh,
three commercial freezers here at the studio. I think, you know,
if you shoot an elk, Elk's 400 pounds of meat, a lot of meat.
It's the great thing. As long as the power stays on and I have electricity,
I have frozen meat, so I can, I can give a lot of it out.
So you got a backup generator. I do. I'm not a prepper, you know,
but I'm prepared in some ways.
And then when all this came down,
basically all I did is I stockpiled on a lot of dried stuff like rice pasta,
things that, you know, you could cook easily with it.
That's the thing is people get fixated on prepping as this kind of, you know,
I built a multimillion dollar bunker or whatever,
whatever spectacular stories that people hear, which, you know,
I'm happy to happy to verify if you want to get into those. But, um, you know,
Mo like prepping on a, on a practical level, like everyday prepping is just,
it's just common sense. You know, just having, you know.
Having enough food to last a few days and.
Thinking through, you know, what, what might happen, you know,
in a blackout or the, you know,
the taps not working or whatever these things do happen.
Yeah. They do happen. And,
but I wanted to get into the psychology of prepping prepping,
because it seems to be conflated with, uh,
conspiracy theorists in some way,
like a preppers or it's the tinfoil hat brigade. It's like those,
those type of folks, folks who think 5g is causing COVID, you know what I mean?
Like there's, for whatever reason prepping,
which should be just a prudence, you know, common sense, preparing, you know,
having something that can purify your water, if everything goes weird. Yeah.
You know, camping every once in a while,
just to get a sense of what it's like to be outdoors and pop your tent and pull
your water out of a river. And, you know,
it's great to have those practical skills.
Yeah. It's camping is fun. As long as you know, it's not permanent.
Isn't that weird. So.
I mean, and this is the thing about disaster, right? Is that if, uh,
if it has an end point, it's something that we can cope with. Right. You know,
so, so take nuclear war, for example, right. Like, let's say,
let's say we get a text message on our phone member in Hawaii in 2018.
Everyone got that message that the ballistic missile was incoming. Right.
So imagine we get that message right now. And you're like, well, Brad, and we,
we actually have a bunker underneath this, the studio. Right.
So you go into the bunker in, but we know after LA is nuked, right.
And it's gone that if we stay in this bunker for 14 days,
the radiation levels are going to be a fraction of what they were when that new
kit. Right. So, so you have an end point there. We have to make it to day 14.
And that's why people were able to psychologically cope with it. Whereas,
you know, the situation we're in right now, like what do we have,
when is the end point? Like, that's why people are cracking. Cause they,
they can't see the end of it.
Right? Well, they're cracking for a bunch of reasons. First of all,
they're cracking because the economic stability is non-existent, it's gone.
50% of all restaurants are dead. You know, I mean,
how many retail shops are dead? It's, it's terrible. Raw, uh, uh, Yelp had some,
uh, statistic the other day that I was reading online about all the different
businesses that have been impacted.
We don't even know what's happening with comedy clubs.
It's just guesswork right now. But I think in Los Angeles,
a lot of them are probably going to wind up going under or across the country.
A lot of them are going to wind up going under restaurants. Um, I had, uh,
uh, the owners of Felix and, uh, the head chef Evan and the owner,
Janet on the podcast recently.
And they were explaining how the Felix is a really great restaurant in Venice
that almost every restaurant operates with a very small amount of profit,
you know, their profit margin. What did she say? Like 15%, 14%,
something like that.
So imagine all of a sudden that's cut to zero for several months.
And then you're asked to occupy 50% of the restaurant,
which is obviously going to diminish your profits radically as well. It's like,
it's just a survival game and there's no end in sight. Right?
So here we are in July, no one anticipated this in March. We thought,
you know, by the time June rolls around,
everything's going to be up and running. No, here we are July,
everything's locked down again. And there's even talk of another,
stay at home order in Los Angeles, which is even scarier. Let's.
Get back to your conspiracy theories. Okay.
If someone told you that we would be in the situation a year ago,
would you believe them? Sure. You would've? I would have. Yeah.
Cause the pandemic seemed like a realistic, well, because.
I've been to the center for disease control, right. I, um, went to Galveston,
Texas for the center of disease control for a show that I did with my friend
Duncan and Duncan Trussell.
And I went down there and we talked to these doctors that work with these
viruses and they scare the out of us. We, we went down there to,
for a television show that we were doing for Saifai.
And it was basically on the idea of weaponized viruses that the basic premise
of the show was it would, if someone engineered a virus and released it on, uh,
on, you know, on the country, like a weaponized virus and they said,
that's not what we have to worry about. We have to worry about as nature.
That's what we have to worry about.
It turns out both because this virus most likely had been
leaked from a lab, what we're dealing with with COVID 19,
according to my friend, Bret Weinstein,
who is a biologist and he detailed on a podcast that I did with him,
all of the different points of, uh,
of evidence that lead to what he believes is a very likely
scenario that it was released from accidentally released from, uh,
a lab and not actually from a wet market that the wet markets,
the coverup it's like the disease is too advanced. It,
it has too many hallmarks and indicators of a virus that had been tampered with,
for study for, uh, for,
for studying the lab and for the examinations and all of the different tests
that they would run. And, uh, so you got both those things, right? You have,
you have, um, the possibility of something just morphing in nature,
like many other pandemics that have happened in the past.
And then what we have now, which is this weird virus, it doesn't make any sense.
And we were talking about all the different,
different symptoms that people get from it, neurological problems,
blood clotting. I was reading this article where they were saying that, uh,
the people that have died from, uh, COVID when they've done autopsies on them,
they found blood clots in every major organ. And they they're like,
this is astonishing. Like this is so weird.
Yeah. It does seem very unrelatable liver.
Kidney, but just blood clots everywhere. It's like people are hemorrhaging.
It's, it's very strange. It's a strange virus. And the,
the transmissibility, is that a word? The, uh,
the ease of transmission is terrifying. It's so it's so contagious.
It's a ridiculously contagious virus.
So once we went to that center for disease control, I started getting scared.
I saw the 2015 bill gates, Ted talk on, uh,
pandemics and about the possibility of a pandemic. And I got scared of it too.
So I would've thought it's possible. Yeah.
I would never would've thought it's impossible. So.
Here's the thing, regardless of, of where this virus came from,
you have to imagine that, uh,
there are governments and individuals, uh,
who are now keyed into how effective this visit.
This virus was at crippling crippling, uh, capitalist economies,
because it's the thing, the thing is we created COVID pathways, right?
I mean, it's international flights,
it's international trade it's people moving around. It's it's, you know,
the neoliberal global capitalist system that we built over the past 30
years that created the pathways that, that,
that took the virus everywhere at once. Right.
So if this were to be a test run, um,
it's now proven to be extremely effective.
And so you have to imagine that governments around the world probably including
the United States are thinking, well, what else, you know, how could we,
how could we weaponize this potentially? And this is the thing.
Well, I don't.
I don't, I don't know either, but the thing is we, you know, the threats,
existential threats that we face now have been multiplied
exponentially right. In the past, in the past, you know, post-World war two,
right. We had, I mean, this is the first sort of global catastrophe, right.
You know, world, world wars. Right.
But then once we develop nuclear weapons and we're,
we're just past the 75th anniversary of the Trinity test now, uh, you know,
once we create that ability to destroy ourselves and potentially the entire
world we have to live with with the possibility of that happening right now,
stack on top of that artificial intelligence, climate change, you know,
synthetic biotech, uh, all,
all of these threats that we face are something that we have to kind of hold in
our heads all the time. And I think it's cracking us mentally to like,
think about these possibilities. So, um, yeah. I mean,
some of the preppers are conspiracy theorists, right. And they're,
they're spinning some really outlandish scenarios. Um,
but a lot of them are just trying to work through these things. Right.
And rather than get caught in this kind of perpetual future tense, like,
you know, uh, thinking about something terrible happening,
they're trying to take action now in the present.
And that gives them some sense of, of, of peace, right?
Like it gives them a sense of like,
it gives them some solid footing in the present.
And a lot of the preppers I talked to were, um, uh,
are not actually very anxious or paranoid at all. Right.
Because they have a plan. It's those of us who don't have a plan that are,
that are anxious.
Well, you've talked to them post, post PO. Yeah. Yeah. Um,
did they feel vindicated?
Uh, no, not really. No. What,
what most of them have told me is that this was a mid-level crisis. Well.
They're right about that. Right. I mean, if Yellowstone blows,
this is going to look like a cakewalk. Yeah. Thanks.
If we get hit with an asteroid, I mean, it's a wrap for humanity. Yeah.
If there's a solar flare that takes out the power grid, we've got real problems.
This is minor in comparison. When you look at the,
the actual fatality rate for healthy people, it's very,
very low, you know, it's less than 1%,
much less than half of 1% for, for most healthy people.
So when you look at what,
what could happen if Yellowstone blows that's a continent killer.
Oh yeah. I mean, I mean, we're talking about volcanic,
volcanic Ash clouding the sky and it can get winter. Yeah. Killing,
killing crops all over the United States all over the world. Yeah. I mean.
Being, you got to have a jet and go to New Zealand, like instantly,
it's like, you don't even know if that New Zealand.
Is in a volcanic zone. I mean, this, like, this is one of the great, uh,
red herrings of our time that you know,
that all of these wealthy people are going to fly to New Zealand and find safety
there. I mean, I also find it totally ironic that a lot of them are sort of,
you know,
libertarian free market capitalists that are quite happy to make money off this
system. But when goes wrong,
they want a really strong government to clamp down and take care of it,
you know.
Is that what they want?
I think just want a remote place to escape with a small amount of people and a
lot of, uh, wildlife resources and real natural beauty.